=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

AN::Tools::Alert

This module provides access to error handling methods.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use AN::Tools;

  # Get a common object handle on all AN::Tools::* modules.
  my $an = AN::Tools->new();
  
  # Trigger a fatal error.
  $an->Alert->error({
  	title		=>	"Something went boom",
  	message		=>	"Details on what went boom",
  	code		=>	<some integer representing what went boom>,
  	file		=>	$THIS_FILE,
  	line		=>	__LINE__,
  	log_to		=>	"/var/log/app_error.log",
  });
  
  # Trigger a translatable fatal error.
  $an->Alert->error({
  	title_key	=>	"err_0001",	# Something went: [#!variable!bang!#]
  	title_vars	=>	{
  		 bang		=>	"$boom"
  	},
  	message_key	=>	"err_0002",	# Details on what went [#!variable!bang!#]: #!variable!oops!#
  	message_vars	=>	{
  		bang		=>	"$boom",
  		oops		=>	"$reason",
  	},
  	code		=>	<some integer representing what went boom>,
  	file		=>	$THIS_FILE,
  	line		=>	__LINE__
  	log_to		=>	"/var/log/app_error.log",
  });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the error handling module. It provides support for all the possible ways that AN::Tools could fail.

=head1 NOTES

All AN::Tools::* modules expects the data they receive to be in UTF-8 encoded format. Likewise, they return UTF-8 encoded strings. If you are getting weird output or are seeing a "wide character in print" error, check that you are not getting double-encoded UTF-8 strings by casting your data as UTF-8 in the first place.

=head1 METHODS

Below are the detailed usage instructions for the methods provided by this module.

=head2 no_fatal_errors

=head3 Example

  # Set otherwise fatal errors to not die but instead return the error to the
  # caller.
  $an->Alert->no_fatal_errors({set => 1});
  
  # Check if fatal errors are actually fatal.
  if ($an->Alert->no_fatal_errors)
  {
  	  print "AN::Tools errors are fatal.\n";
  }
  else
  {
  	  print "AN::Tools errors are no longer fatal.\n";
  }
  
  # Make fatal errors actually fatal again (this is the default).
  $an->Alert->no_fatal_errors({set => 0});

=head3 Details

This either checks if AN::Tools errors are fatal (will terminate the running program) or instead set their internal error strings (see below). By default, errors are fatal.

When called with no arguments, this method will return 1 or 0 depending on whether errors are fatal or not, respectively. The only parameter this method takes is 'set' with a value or '1' or '0'. Any other value is simply ignored.

If set to 1, modules that would have died will set '$an->error' in much the same way that you can check for an error in 'eval' by seeing if the special variable '$@' is set.

=head2 silence_warnings

=head3 Example

  # Set otherwise fatal errors to not die but instead return the error to the
  # caller.
  $an->Alert->silence_warnings({set => 1});
  
  # Check if warnings are silent.
  if ($an->Alert->silence_warnings)
  {
  	  print "AN::Tools warnings are silent.\n";
  }
  else
  {
  	  print "AN::Tools warnings will print to STDOUT.\n";
  }
  
  # Silence warnings; This prevents warnings from being printed to STDOUT, but
  # they will still be logged.
  $an->Alert->silence_warnings({set => 1});

=head3 Details

If you're getting a warning and you want to prevent it from being printed to STDOUT, set this to C<1>. By default, this is set to C<0>. This might come in handy if your program is known to trigger a harmless warning and you want to silence it until you can fix the underlying problem. ... You will get around to fixing it, of course, won't you.

=head2 warning

=head3 Example

  # Calling this method triggers a warning.
  $an->Alert->warning({
  	title		=>	"Something went pop",
  	message		=>	"Details on what went pop",
  	code		=>	<some integer representing what went pop>,
  	file		=>	$THIS_FILE,
  	line		=>	__LINE__
  });
  
  # The alternative, short-form of calling this method is:
  $an->Alert->warning("Something went pop", "Details on what went pop", <some integer representing what went pop>, $THIS_FILE, __LINE__);

=head3 Details

This method handles warning via the module. It actually expects the 'title' and 'message' to be word keys, but that isn't built yet (Madi!). When it does, it will also accept the usual 'title_var' and 'message_var' array references.

If C<$an->Alert->silence_warnings> is C<1>, then the warning will only be printed to the log file. By default it writes to the log file and to STDOUT.

This method takes several parameters:

=head3 Parameters

=head4 C<title>

This is the short title (title key, eventually) of the warning message.

=head4 C<message>

This is the full warning message (text key, eventually) of the warning message.

=head4 C<code>

This is the error code for this warning.

=head4 C<file>

This is the name of the file triggering the warning.

=head4 C<line>

This is the line in the file where the warning was triggered.

=head2 error

=head3 Example

  # Calling this method triggers an error event.
  $an->Alert->error({
  	title		=>	"Something went boom",
  	message		=>	"Details on what went boom",
  	code		=>	<some integer representing what went boom>,
  	file		=>	$THIS_FILE,
  	line		=>	__LINE__
  });

=head3 Details

This method handles errors via the module. The 'title' and 'message' can be translatable word keys (in the format 'w*_d*', like 'error_0001') or a raw string. If the title or message do not match the expected key string, the string will be treated as a raw message and will be recorded as-is.

This method takes several parameters. 

=head3 Parameters

=head4 C<title>

This is a short "Title" used for the alert message. If it is detected as a key, C<title_vars> will be consulted and the two will be used to translate the title. If the string is not a key, it will be recorded as-is.

=head4 C<title_vars>

This is an array reference containing the arguments to feed into the C<title> string when translating a word key.

=head4 C<message>

This is the alert message body. If it is detected as a key, C<message_vars> will be consulted and the two will be used to translate the title. If the string is not a key, it will be recorded as-is.

=head4 C<message_vars>

This is an array reference containing the arguments to feed into the C<message> string when translating a word key.

=head4 C<code>

This is the error code for this error (see below).

=head4 C<file>

This is the name of the file triggering the error.

=head4 C<line>

This is the line in the file where the error was triggered.

=head1 AN::Tools ERROR CODES

Below are the list of AN::Tools numeric error codes for both errors and warnings and their English description.

=head2 C<0>

No Error, successful exit.

=head2 C<1>

Generic or unknown error.

=head2 C<2>

Non-integer value passed to the 'AN::Tools::Math->round' method. Only digits and one decimal are allowed in the string to be rounded. Commas may be passed but they will be stripped out in the returned string.

=head2 C<3>

A value other that C<0> or C<1> was passed into the 'AN::Readable::Readable' module's 'base2' method.

=head2 C<4>

Invalid argument passed into the 'AN::Tools::Readable' module's 'comma' method. Specifically, the argument contained a non-digit character or too many decimals.

=head2 C<5>

Invalid argument passed into the 'AN::Tools::Readable' module's 'time' method. Specifically, the argument contained a non-digit character or too many decimals. Commas may have been in the string and they would not trigger this error as they are removed prior to calculation.

=head2 C<6>

Invalid argument passed into the 'AN::Tools::Readable' module's 'bytes_to_hr' method. Specifically, the byte size was not a signed integer. Commas are allowed and are removed by the method prior to calculations. Any other non-digit character will trigger this error.

=head2 C<7>

Invalid argument passed into the 'AN::Tools::Readable' module's 'hr_to_bytes' method. Specifically, the byte size was not a signed integer or real number. Commas are allowed and are removed by the method prior to calculations. Any other non-digit character will trigger this error.

=head2 C<8>

Invalid argument passed into the 'AN::Tools::Readable' module's 'hr_to_bytes' method. Specifically, the size appears to already be in bytes but the size was not a signed integer. Commas are allowed and are removed by the method prior to calculations. Any other non-digit character will trigger this error.

=head2 C<9>

The 'AN::Tools' module tried to load the 'Math::BigInt' module but it failed to load or was not found. This module is needed when dealing with very large number and is only loaded when needed. Please install this module using your operating system's package manager or via CPAN.

=head2 C<10>

The 'AN::Tools::Readable' module's 'hr_to_bytes' method was not able to parse a valid size type. Either an invalid size type was passed or the method failed to properly parse the size type. Valid size types are: 'b', 'k', 'm', 'g', 't', 'p', 'e', 'z' or 'y'.

=head2 C<11>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'read_words' method was not able to find the specified words file. This was either the passed words file or the default words file 'tools.xml' in the root directory of the module if none was specified.

=head2 C<12>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'read_words' method was not able to read the specified words file. Please check the permissions on the words file.

=head2 C<13>

The 'AN::Tools' module tried to load the 'IO::Handle' module but it failed to load or was not found. This module is needed when reading from or writing to files on disk. Please install this module using your operating system's package manager or via CPAN.

=head2 C<14>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'force_utf8' method was passed an invalid argument. Only 1 and 0 are valid arguments.

=head2 C<15>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'get_string' method was passed an invalid 'hash' argument. This must be a hash reference containing data read in from an XML words file by the 'read_words()' method.

=head2 C<16>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'get_string' method was passed an invalid 'vars' argument. This must be an array reference containing elements intended to replace corresponding #!variable!x!# replacement keys in the requested string.

=head2 C<17>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'get_string' method was passed an invalid 'language' argument. This must match one of the languages in the words file's <langs>...</langs> block.

=head2 C<18>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'get_string' method was passed a 'key' argument not found in the active language. This key must be defined in one of the read in words files.

=head2 C<19>

The 'AN::Tools::Log' module's 'log_level()' method was passed a non-integer argument. Only integers are valid.

=head2 C<20>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'get()' method was passed an empty key value.

=head2 C<21>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->_create_rsync_wrapper() private function was called without passing the target machine and/or target password.

=head2 C<22>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->rsync() method was called without a 'target' parameter. Please use 'target => <remote_machine_address>'.

=head2 C<23>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->rsync() method was called without a 'password' parameter. Please use 'password => <remote_users_password>'. The 'source' or 'destination' will be in the format 'user@target' and the password must be for the 'user' on the 'target' machine.

=head2 C<24>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->rsync() method was called without a 'source' parameter. Please use 'source => [user@target:]/path/to/source'. If the 'source' is the local machine, simply set the path. If the source is the remote machine, use 'user@target:/path/to/source'.

=head2 C<25>

A directory was passed to a method that does not exist yet. Please create the directory mentioned in the error.

=head2 C<26>

A directory was passed to a method that exists but is not writeable by either the user or group that the method was running as. Please change the permissions on the directory to be writeable by the user or group specified in the error or specify a different directory that is writeable.

=head2 C<27>

A file was passed to a method that exists but is not writeable by either the user or group that the method was running as. Please change the permissions on the file to be writeable by the user or group specified in the error or specify a different file that is writeable.

=head2 C<28>

The file mentioned in the error failed to open for reading. The error returned by the system will be included in the error message.

=head2 C<29>

The file mentioned in the error failed to open for writing. The error returned by the system will be included in the error message.

=head2 C<30>

A system call was attempted which failed. The details of the error will be in the output message.

=head2 C<31>

The 'AN::Tools' module tried to load the 'Fcntl' module but it failed to load or was not found. This module is needed when locking and unlocking files on disk. Please install this module using your operating system's package manager or via CPAN.

=head2 C<32>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->rsync() method was called without a 'destination' parameter. Please use 'destination => [user@target:]/path/to/source'. If the 'destination' is the local machine, simply set the path. If the destination is the remote machine, use 'user@target:/path/to/source'.

=head2 C<33>

The 'AN::Tools::Get->rsa_public_key()' method wasn't passed a 'user' parameter. Please use 'user => <local_user>' where the 'local_user' is the system users whose RSA key you want to read is.

=head2 C<34>

The 'AN::Tools::Get->users_home()' method failed to read the requested user's home directory from '/etc/passwd'.

=head2 C<35>

A method used by AN::Tools tried to call 'rename' on a file and failed. Exactly which module, method, source and destination file name will be included in the error message.

=head2 C<36>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's 'get()' was passed a string with a '#!variable!x!#' replacement key without an array reference containing the replacement keys. This would trigger an infinite loop and is thus a fatal error.

=head2 C<37>

The 'AN::Tools' module detected an unknown environment. Defaulting to "html" as it can at least be seen on the command line, unlike the other way around.

=head2 C<38>

The 'AN::Tools::Get->users_home()' method was called without being passed a user name. Please use 'user => <user>' where the 'user' is the local system users whose home directory you want.

=head2 C<39>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->read_xml_file()' method was passed a 'file' that was not readable.

=head2 C<40>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->read_xml_file()' method was called without a file name.

=head2 C<41>

The 'AN::Tools::Storage->read_xml_file()' method was passed a hash reference that wasn't actually a hash reference.

=head2 C<42>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman->peer_hostname()' method found the local hostname in the cman configuration file but did not find a peer.

=head2 C<43>

warning

The 'AN::Tools' module detected an unknown operating system type. The user was asked to submit this warning and their operating system details to AN! so that this module can be extended to support their OS. The program will contiunue with Linux-type settings which may not work.

=head2 C<44>

The C<AN::Tools::Storage-E<gt>find()> was set to be fatal if the requested file was not found and it wasn't, triggering this error.

=head2 C<45>

The C<AN::Tools::Storage-E<gt>search_dirs()> was passed an argument that wasn't an array reference or a comma-separated list of directories.

=head2 C<46>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman->peer_hostname()' method failed to find the local hostname in the cman configuration file. Unable to determine which node is the peer.

=head2 C<47>

The 'AN::Tools::Get->ip()' method was called without the 'host' parameter.

=head2 C<48>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'initialize_db()' method was called but 'path::scancore_sql' wasn't set. This is usually caused by running a ScanCore agent without ever having run ScanCore itself on the machine.

=head2 C<49>

The 'AN::Tools::Get->server_uuid()' method was called but the 'server' value wasn't set.

=head2 C<50>

The 'AN::Tools::Get->remote_anvil_details()' method was called but the 'anvil' value wasn't set.

=head2 C<51>

The 'AN::Tools::Get->server_data()' method was called but 'server' and 'uuid' values were not set. One of them must be passed.

=head2 C<52>

Failed to create a symbolic link.

=head2 C<53>

Failed to delete a file.

=head2 C<54>

The 'AN::Tools::Check->daemon()' method was called but the 'daemon' value wasn't set.

=head2 C<55>

The 'AN::Tools::Check->kernel_module()' method was called but the 'module' value wasn't set.

=head2 C<56>

The 'AN::Tools::Check->drbd_resource()' method was called but the 'resource' value wasn't set.

=head2 C<57>

The 'AN::Tools::Log' module's 'db_transactions()' method was passed an invalid value. Only '0' (disable) and '1' (enable) are valid.

=head2 C<58>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'server_data()' failed to find the UUID for the named server.

=head2 C<59>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'boot_server()' method was not passed a 'server' name to boot.

=head2 C<60>

Failed to connect to any database, unable to proceed.

=head2 C<61>

The local machine's UUID was not read properly. It should be stored in 'sys::host_uuid' and contain hexadecimal characters in the format: '012345-6789-abcd-ef01-23456789abcd'. If this file exists and if there is a string in the file, please verify that it is structured correctly. Please do not simply replace it! All sensor data that was read by this host is mapped back to this machine using that UUID. Generating a new UUID will disconnect that historical data from this machine.

=head2 C<62>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'load_schema()' method was called without being passwd a database ID.

=head2 C<63>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'load_schema()' method was called without being passed a schema file.

=head2 C<64>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'load_schema()' method was passed a schema file that wasn't found.

=head2 C<65>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'load_schema()' method was passed a schema file was found but could not be read.

=head2 C<66>

Failed to read a file. The file in question and the reason for the error should be displayed.

=head2 C<67>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'initialize_db()' method was called without a DB ID.

=head2 C<68>

Failed to send an alert because the host is not yet in the ScanCore database. This can happen on the very first run of Striker when the peer is not accessible so the initial attempt to connect to the DB fails and tries to register an alert before this host gets into the DB. If this is the case, this warning can be ignored.

=head2 C<69>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' method's 'cgi()' method was called without an array reference of variable names to check and read.

=head2 C<70>

Failed to make a system call. The attempted call and the error should be in the error message.

=head2 C<71>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'stop_server()' method was not passed a 'server' name to shut down.

=head2 C<72>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'do_db_write()' method was asked to do an UPDATE or INSERT for a database whose file handle has been closed (or was never opened). The database ID, query and server will be reported in the error message.

=head2 C<73>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'template()' method was called without a template file passed.

=head2 C<74>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'template()' method was called without a template name passed.

=head2 C<75>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'template()' method failed to find a template file. The missing file will be reported in the error.

=head2 C<76>

The 'AN::Tools::String' module's private '_process_string_replace()' method hit an infinite loop while replacing '#!replace!...!#' replacement variables. The template file and template segment will be listed in the error. If this is triggered erroneously, increase the 'sys::error_limit' value.

=head2 C<77>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_smtp()' method was called without passing in an SMTP server name.

=head2 C<78>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_owners()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! owner name.

=head2 C<79>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_anvils()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! name.

=head2 C<80>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_anvils()' method tried to create a new Anvil! entry, but no Owner UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<81>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_anvils()' method tried to create a new Anvil! entry, but no SMTP UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<82>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_nodes()' method was called without an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<83>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_nodes()' method was called without a host UUID.

=head2 C<84>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'anvil_data()' method was called but neither an Anvil! name or UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<85>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'owner_data()' method was called but neither a name or UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<86>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'smtp_data()' method was called but neither a server or UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<87>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'alert_data()' method was called but neither a target or UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<88>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_notifications()' method was called without passing in a target or UUID

=head2 C<89>

unused

=head2 C<90>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'recipient_data()' method was called but no recipient, anvil or notification target UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<91>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_recipients()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! and/or notification UUID.

=head2 C<92>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'server_data()' method failed to find the requested server's XML definition data.

=head2 C<93>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'parse_install_manifest()' method was not passed a manifest UUID to parse.

=head2 C<94>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'parse_install_manifest()' method failed to find the install manifest XML data for the given UUID.

=head2 C<95>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'netmask_from_ip()' method was called without passing in an IP address.

=head2 C<96>

The 'AN::Tools::Remote' module's 'wait_on_peer()' method was called without passing in program name.

=head2 C<97>

The 'AN::Tools::Remote' module's 'wait_on_peer()' method was called without passing in a target address.

=head2 C<98>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'do_db_query()' method couldn't sort out a Striker database ID to use.

=head2 C<99>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'node_state()' method was passes in a target which could not be translated to a host UUID.

=head2 C<100>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'node_state()' method was passes in a target which does not exist in the 'nodes' database table.

=head2 C<101>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'get_migration_target()' method was called without passing in a server name.

=head2 C<102>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'load_anvil()' method was called without passing in a UUID.

=head2 C<103>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'load_anvil()' method was called with the UUID set but it did not appear to be a properly formatted UUID.

=head2 C<104>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'load_anvil()' method was called with a valid format UUID, but it did not appear to match any known Anvil! systems.

=head2 C<105>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'scan_node()' method was called without passing in a UUID.

=head2 C<106>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'scan_node()' method was called with the UUID set but it did not appear to be a properly formatted UUID.

=head2 C<107>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'scan_node()' method was called with a valid format UUID, but it did not appear to match any known nodes.

=head2 C<108>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_nodes_cache()' method was called without a host UUID.

=head2 C<109>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_nodes_cache()' method was called without a node UUID.

=head2 C<110>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_nodes_cache()' method was called without a cache item name.

=head2 C<111>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'target_power()' method was called with an invalid task. Valid tasks are 'status', 'on' and 'off'.

=head2 C<112>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'target_power()' method was called without a target UUID.

=head2 C<113>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'target_power()' method was called with an target UUID that wasn't mapped to a host.

=head2 C<114>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'mark_node_as_clean_off()' method was called without passing in a node UUID.

=head2 C<115>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'mark_node_as_clean_off()' method was called with a node UUID that does not appear to be a properly formatted UUID.

=head2 C<116>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'mark_node_as_clean_off()' method was called with a UUID which does not appear to match any known nodes.

=head2 C<117>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'mark_node_as_clean_on()' method was called without passing in a node UUID.

=head2 C<118>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'mark_node_as_clean_on()' method was called with a node UUID that does not appear to be a properly formatted UUID.

=head2 C<119>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'mark_node_as_clean_on()' method was called with a UUID which does not appear to match any known nodes.

=head2 C<120>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'migrate_server()' method was called without passing the name of a server to migrate.

=head2 C<121>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'manifest_data()' method was called without passing in a manifest UUID.

=head2 C<122>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'manifest_data()' method was called with an invalid manifest UUID.

=head2 C<123>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'configure_ssh_local()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! name.

=head2 C<124>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'update_peers()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! name.

=head2 C<125>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_start_server()' method was called without passing in an server name to boot.

=head2 C<126>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_start_server()' failed to find a node that was online and running the cluster software.

=head2 C<127>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_stop_server()' method was called without passing in an server name to shut down.

=head2 C<128>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_stop_server()' failed to find a node that was online and running the cluster software.

=head2 C<129>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'peer_network_details()' failed to find the Anvil! peer for the node.

=head2 C<130>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_migrate_server()' method was called without passing in an server name to migrate.

=head2 C<131>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_migrate_server()' method was asked to migrate a server, but neither node was accessible or in the cluster stack.

=head2 C<132>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_force_off_server()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<133>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_force_off_server()' method was asked to force off a server which reports as being on a host that does not match a node in the Anvil!.

=head2 C<134>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_delete_server()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<135>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_delete_server()' method was asked to delete a server, but neither node was accessible or in the cluster stack.

=head2 C<136>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_withdraw_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<137>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_withdraw_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! node name.

=head2 C<138>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_withdraw_node()' method was called with a node name that wasn't mapped to a node key for the active Anvil!.

=head2 C<139>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_join_anvil()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<140>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_join_anvil()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! node name.

=head2 C<141>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_dual_join()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<142>

unused

=head2 C<143>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_fence_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<144>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_fence_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! node name.

=head2 C<145>

The 'AN::Tools::Check' module's 'on_same_network()' method was called without passing in a remote host name or IP address.

=head2 C<146>

The 'AN::Tools::Check' module's 'on_same_network()' method was given a host name that couldn't be translated to an IP address.

=head2 C<147>

The 'AN::Tools::Check' module's 'on_same_network()' method was given a host name that was translated to a string that isn't a valid IP address.

=head2 C<148>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_poweroff_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<149>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_poweroff_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! node name.

=head2 C<150>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_poweroff_node()' method was called with a node name that wasn't mapped to a node key for the active Anvil!.

=head2 C<151>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_poweron_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<152>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_poweron_node()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! node name.

=head2 C<153>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_poweron_node()' method was called with a node name that wasn't mapped to a node key for the active Anvil!.

=head2 C<154>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_dual_join()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<155>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_get_storage_data()' method was called without an Anvil! UUID CGI variable set.

=head2 C<156>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_get_storage_data()' method was called without Anvil! node name CGI variable set.

=head2 C<157>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_cold_stop_anvil()' saw a node power off but failed to find the node's UUID. This is likely a program error.

=head2 C<158>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'update_server_stop_reason()' was called without a server name being passed in.

=head2 C<159>

The 'AN::Tools::InstallManifest' module's 'map_network_on_node()' method failed to match the node name being processed.

=head2 C<160>

The 'AN::Tools::InstallManifest' module's 'read_cluster_conf()' was called without a node name.

=head2 C<161>

The 'AN::Tools::InstallManifest' module's 'write_cluster_conf()' was called without a node name.

=head2 C<162>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'daemon_boot_config()' was called without a daemon name.

=head2 C<163>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'daemon_boot_config()' was called with an invalid 'set' value. Nnly 'on' or 'off' are valid.

=head2 C<164>

The 'AN::Tools::Web' module's 'insert_or_update_variables()' method was called without passing in an variable name or variable UUID.

=head2 C<165>

The 'AN::Tools::Web' module's 'read_variables()' method was called without passing in an variable name.

=head2 C<166>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'server_uuid()' method was unable to gather the UUIDs of the Anvil! nodes.

=head2 C<167>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'server_xml()' method was called without a server name being passed.

=head2 C<168>

The 'AN::Tools::Readable' module's 'hr_to_bytes()' method was called with a value that the human readable size could not be determined from.

=head2 C<169>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'upses_under_node()' method was called without a node name or a node UUID.

=head2 C<170>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'upses_under_node()' method was called with a node name which wasn't found in the database.

=head2 C<171>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'upses()' method was called without an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<172>

The 'AN::Tools::Check' module's 'ping()' method was called without 'ip' being set.

=head2 C<173>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'ip_from_hostname()' method was called without a host name being set.

=head2 C<174>

The 'AN::Tools::Remote' module's 'remote_call()' method was called without a target being set.

=head2 C<175>

The 'AN::Tools::Remote' module's 'remote_call()' method was asked to connect to a target machine on an invalid TCP port.

=head2 C<176>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'load_anvil()' method was called before ScanCore has run on both nodes. Please make sure that ScanCore is enabled and has run at least once.

=head2 C<177>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'dr_target_data()' method was called without passing in a DR Target name or UUID.

=head2 C<178>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'dr_target_data()' method was called with an invalid DR Target name or UUID.

=head2 C<179>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'dr_target_data()' method was called but neither an DR target name or UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<180>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'dr_job_data()' method was called but neither an DR job name or UUID was passed in.

=head2 C<181>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_servers()' method was called without passing in a server name or server UUID.

=head2 C<182>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_servers()' method was called without passing in an Anvil! name.

=head2 C<183>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_servers()' method was called without passing in the XML definition.

=head2 C<184>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_servers()' method was called with 'just_definition', but no server UUID or name was passed in.

=head2 C<185>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's '_server_eject_media()' method was called without a server name being set.

=head2 C<186>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_states()' method was called without state name being set.

=head2 C<187>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'insert_or_update_states()' method was called without state host uuid being set.

=head2 C<188>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'compress_file()' method was called without a file name to compress.

=head2 C<189>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'compress_file()' method was called with a file name that does not appear to be a fully defined path.

=head2 C<190>

A request to shut down a node timed out.

=head2 C<191>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'ram_used_by_program()' method was called without a program name to check.

=head2 C<192>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'check_ram_usage()' method was called without a program name to check.

=head2 C<193>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'connect_to_databases()' method tried to connect to the same database twice.

=head2 C<194>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'configure_ipmi()' was called without a password being set.

=head2 C<195>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_shell_user_password()' was called without a user name to change the password for.

=head2 C<196>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_shell_user_password()' was called without a new password being set.

=head2 C<197>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_shell_user_password()' was called without root privileges.

=head2 C<198>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_apache_password()' was called without a new password being set.

=head2 C<199>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_apache_password()' was called without root privileges.

=head2 C<200>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_apache_password()' without a user being defined and the htpasswd users file doesn't exist, so no user names could be divined.

=head2 C<201>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_postgresql_password()' was called without a user name to change the password for.

=head2 C<202>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_postgresql_password()' was called without a new password being set.

=head2 C<203>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'change_postgresql_password()' was called without root privileges.

=head2 C<204>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'update_striker_conf()' was called without a variable to work on.

=head2 C<205>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'get_db_id_from_striker_conf()' was called without an array reference of host(s) to match.

=head2 C<206>

The 'AN::Tools::Striker' module's 'get_db_id_from_striker_conf()' was called with an empty array reference of host(s) to match.

=head2 C<207>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called with an Anvil! UUID string that wasn't actually a UUID.

=head2 C<208>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called without an Anvil! UUID being passed in.

=head2 C<209>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called without a task to perform.

=head2 C<210>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called with an invalid task.

=head2 C<211>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called with a valid task, but no sub-task.

=head2 C<212>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to change or set the shutdown delay for a server, but no time was given.

=head2 C<213>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to change or set the shutdown delay for a server, but the time was given wasn't a whole number.

=head2 C<214>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to manipulate a server, but an invalid sub-task was requested.

=head2 C<215>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to manipulate a server, but no sub-task was requested.

=head2 C<216>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called with an Anvil! UUID that doesn't match any known Anvil! system.

=head2 C<217>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to change the node with the fence delay, but no node was given.

=head2 C<218>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to change the node with the fence delay, but the node name given didn't match either node in the Anvil! system.

=head2 C<219>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to change the password used for a fence method, but no method name was given.

=head2 C<220>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to change the password used for a fence method, but no new password was given.

=head2 C<221>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to manipulate a fence method, but an invalid sub-task was requested.

=head2 C<222>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to manipulate a fence method, but no sub-task was requested.

=head2 C<223>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called, but one or both nodes is not accessible.

=head2 C<224>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was called, but one or both nodes is not a member of the cluster stack (cman isn't running).

=head2 C<225>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' was asked to change the password of a fence method for a node, but the node name given didn't match either node in the Anvil! system.

=head2 C<226>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' failed to parse the 'cluster.conf' file properly. either the closing '</cluster>' element or the 'config_variable' attribute was not found.

=head2 C<227>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' failed to validate the new cluster.conf. The failed cluster.conf can be found in /tmp/.

=head2 C<228>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' failed to create a backup of cluster.conf prior to replacing it with the new version.

=head2 C<229>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' failed to copy the new cluster.conf file. The expected 'config_version' wasn't found in the generated file.

=head2 C<230>

The 'AN::Tools::Cman' module's 'update_cluster_conf()' failed to push the new configuration file out to the cluster. The returned version number was less than what it should have been with the requested changes.

=head2 C<231>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'configure_ipmi()' was called without a task being set.

=head2 C<232>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'configure_ipmi()' was called with an invalid task being requested. Valid tasks are 'password', 'network' or 'both'.

=head2 C<233>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'configure_ipmi()' was asked to change the IPMI user password, but was not given the name of the user to work on.

=head2 C<234>

The 'AN::Tools::System' module's 'pick_shutdown_target()' was called without an Anvil! UUID.

=head2 C<235>

The 'AN::Tools::ScanCore' module's 'get_node_health()' method was passes in a target which could not be translated to a host UUID.

=head2 C<236>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'archive_table()' method was called without a table name given.

=head2 C<237>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'archive_table()' method was called without a number of records to archive.

=head2 C<238>

The 'AN::Tools::DB' module's 'archive_table()' method was called without an array reference of columns.

=head2 C<239>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'node_pdus()' method was called without an Anvil! UUID being passed.

=head2 C<240>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'node_pdus()' method was called without an node name being passed.

=head2 C<241>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'node_upses()' method was called without an Anvil! UUID being passed.

=head2 C<242>

The 'AN::Tools::Get' module's 'node_upses()' method was called without an node name being passed.



=head2 C<999>

The 'AN::Tools' module exited without a defined exit code.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Other modules in the AN::Tools suite:

=over

=item AN::Tools

=item AN::Tools::Check

=item AN::Tools::Log

=item AN::Tools::Math

=item AN::Tools::Readable

=item AN::Tools::String

=item AN::Tools::Storage

=back

=head1 LICENSE

 Copyright (c) 1997-2015 Alteeve's Niche! Inc., All rights reserved.
 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
